For the first time since at least 1950, the United States has had multiple years in a row in which it produced more energy than it consumed, according to data from the Department of Energy. Over the past 70 years, much of US energy production has been dominated by fossil fuels and primary energy sources. However, as the population exploded, a deficit began to form. 

Between the years 1968 and 1980, that deficit ballooned to an annual average of over 20 quadrillion British Thermal Units, a standard unit of energy representing the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one F. For reference, during a similar length of time between 1949 and 1967, the average annual deficit was a little under two quadrillion BTU. As the age of the internet started, the energy needs of average Americans continued to increase [I'd include an expert here talking more about why the deficit actually got so big; this is just my guess]. The two decades between 1990 and 2010 saw the deficit explode to an annual average of over 46 quadrillion BTU. For much of this period, the deficit was filled by energy imports. During that time, the US imported an annual average of around 27 quadrillion BTU, while exporting very little.

In the past decade, this trend has flipped with the US suddenly closing the deficit at a rapid rate throughout the 2010s. Starting in 2019, the US began to produce more energy than it consumed. Between 2019-2024 US produced an annual average of around eight quadrillion BTU more than it needed. This coincided with an increase in energy exports and a decrease in imports. Between 2003 and 2013, the US exported an annual average of around seven quadrillion BTU. The following decade, between 2014 and 2024, the US exported an annual average of around 21 quadrillion BTU. 



This data was quite clean right out of the box. It was well organized, and apart from some minor cleaning (ex: moving the units to the same row as the titles), I didn't need to do much. As for analysis, I basically just kept calculating stuff until something stood out to me. I first wanted to look at how nuclear energy had sorta hit a plateau in the past few decades, but there wasn't a lot there. I stumbled upon the massive increase in exports, and that gave me reason to look into total consumption/production, which is where I found the story. The data didn't include total consumption/production, just what each type produced indivually so I needed to calculate that. Additionally, I wanted to calculate the net energy (the deficit) as I thought that would tell me the most information on a yearly basis. I believe my biggest problem here was the lack of answers in the data. The US just started producing more energy than it had in the past, and I am not exactly sure how or why.
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1W3-m8gYTryHboBVh2eAYgHEdwzwwmRhtNXLwc9iw0tg/edit?usp=sharing (All my anaylsis is in the annual tab)
